Charlotte BI Group Meeting 03/07/2016
charbigroup.com
@charbigroup

SQL Saturday 3/11 Raleigh
sqlsaturday.com/592/eventhome.aspx

analyticsfrontier ritz

TekSystems

Sr level dev position SQL/BI
Jr Level person as well

Rafael - Ally Bank




Working with JSON Formatted Data in SSMS 2016
Cardinal
---------------------------------------------
Greg Lee - Cardinal Solutions

Data.gov

Select statement
FOR JSON PATH, ROOT('Orders') - orders being top level node


OPENJSON

Select 
Cross Apply OPENJSON(OrderItems) WITH
(
	CarrierTrackingNumber nvarchar(50) '$.CarrierTrackingNumber'

	JSON_VALUE(OrderItems, '$(0)' blah blah)
)

Can index the JSON against a TEMP Table - limited to something like 1700 index keys or so

Wide World Importers - in SQL 2016






The Four Levels of Thinking as Geek Leader
Tom Cooper
------------------------------------------------
What nobody tells you about achievement

What if what you know is wrong?
If what you believed were not true, would you want to know?

Tom helps people communicate, delegate, manage conflict, and plan

Learn how to influence the people around you

Connect with the others

Must study people - must learn people

HOW WILL YOU ACT? - Apply, Change, Teach

Have you ever worked for a stupid boss?
Who they know, yes man, those that can't do - manage

Early Years are all about personal performance


TWO MYTHS:
#1 -Geek Skills Rule
ITS A TRAP
Early years are TechSkills/small portion of politics/BS

3 components to success:
 Tech skills - small component
 Influencing Skills - huge
 Business Knowledge - medium


 #2 - Hard work works
 Talent + hard work does not work
 They did not value the work that bill delivered

 Work is not rewarded

 Tom believed that Talent + hard work would pay off
 he behaved that way, and was disappointed
 Beliefs => Behaviors => Results

 Your beliefs are important to your success - you must think differently

 Design your own plan, or fall into someone else's - what they have planned for you is nothing

 FOUR LEVELS OF THNKING AS A GEEK LEADER
 Level1 - Individual Contributor "I produce great work"
 What are you optimizing? What is success? does the map match the territory?


 Go fast, then go alone. Go farther - then go together.

 How do you know hwen you are succeeding?
 	feedback
 	stuff gets used
 	you've automated your job away

 Would you follow you?
 	can people count on you?
 	Personal performance - only so much work can be done by a single person

 	Why do people buy our product?


 LEVEL2: TEAM MEMBER
 "I work with other and together we produce great work"
 Level 2A = Dependence - I need you to help me

 Zig Ziglar - you can have anything you want in life, if you help enough other people get what THEY want.

 Early Project Management
 help each person on the team get what they need

 Level 2B - interdependence - How can I help you, from ME to WE

 One is too small a number to achieve greatness - John Maxwell

 Business Success = 87% people knowledge, 13% product knowledge
 
 Whatever time you spend on tech knowledge - equal that with leadership knowledge


 People do business wiht people they know like and trust -all things being equal - Bob Burg

 Are you bringing light into the room?  Or are you bringing light into the room when you leave?

 Level 2 producers are often promoted - work better with others
 What happens when you take a high producer and you move them to leadership



 LEVEL3 - Team Leader - I help others become influential followers who produce great work
 How do you value someone for technical delivery when they aren't moved higher into leadership?

 When you are promoted to manager you ask now what? 60% of new managers fail or underperform in the first 2 years - underproduction, do you deliver the value that the overall team can deliver?

 Why Managers Stink?
 The avg manager does not get any training until they have been on the job for 10 years

 A better manager - paradigm #1
 The paradigm shift from fitting people management in
 to
  people management is your job

Leadership by permission - 1. Culture - focus on the WHO not the DO, 2. Team members wnat ot follow your lead and WANT to work together

Move beyond personal performance - what does the team deliver

Management is about getting the job done, through others
 - We NOT ME

 LEVEL 4 : TEAM BUILDER
 I help develop great team leaders who develop others and together we produce great work

 give good people the authority to make decisions about good work

 Producer => Leader => Other Producers



 Tom Cooper 
 Tom@BrightHillGroup.com
 @BrightHillGroup

 People skills trump everything

 HelpingGeeksCommunicate.com/join

 Self Awareness as a manager?


 Learn to delegate - 

 manager/leader focuses on delivery - 3x, 5x, is the team performing at its best

 Put more focus on the people side of things!  Build great relationships.

 If you are above the organizational funding level then the values don't match.
 Anger

 What is the bosss being measured on, that you can help with.
 maximize your influence

recommendations?
becoming a geek leader  - podcast! Listen and learn baby

How do you get expers to want to work with you?

What investments are you going to make into you?





 Google - Project Oxygen



